[[!meta title="Setup slurm and slurmdbd (need root access)"]]

The first thing to do is to setup [slurm][] and [slurmdbd][]. This
documentation assumes the user knows basic slurm administration.

Slurmdbd must be configured and working, account enforcing is enabled
in *slurm.conf*

    AccountingStorageEnforce=limits

Note that the *PriorityDecayHalfLife* and *PriorityUsageResetPeriod* can
be used to allow usage half-life decay and reset. This is because
the usage information is pulled directly from the Slurmdbd via
*sreport*; whereas the two parameters above only affect the way
usage is stored in local *_usage files.

Note also that when the scheduler looks to see if an association has
sufficient balance to start a new job, it compares the "GrpCPUMins"
field against the local *_usage files to check if enough time is
available (not the Slurmdbd), this can result in negative balances
being reported by "sbank balance statement".

What is also required is a pretty good estimate of the total available
cpu hours that you have on your cluster that you can allocate to
accounts.

[[sbank-cluster]] can provide a rough estimate of what's available.

    $ sbank cluster cpuhrs

Users will need to learn how to use accounts (nothing new here).

sbatch, sinfo, sacctmgr and sreport are required and must be working.

One implementation detail is that 'sreport' requires a start date
parameter (otherwise it defaults to the previous day). The script defaults
to using a start date of 3 years in the past. This can be changed with
the '-s yyyy-mm-dd' parameter.

If you do not already have a cluster registered and configured in slurm,

	$ sbank cluster create mycluster

[slurm]: https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/
[slurmdbd]: https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/accounting.html
