# SLURM Bank: adding banking capability to the SLURM resource manager software

## Abstract

SLURM (Simple Linux Utility for Resource Management) is an open-source
resource manager designed for Linux clusters, used on some of the
most powerful computers in the world. It manages available resources
(computers, CPU cores, memory, GPGPUs etc). It provides a framework for
starting, executing and monitoring compute tasks (typically parallel
jobs). It arbitrates contention for resources by managing a queue of
pending work.

GOLD is an open-source accounting system, which tracks resource usage
on High Performance Computers and acts much like a bank, establishing
accounts in order to pre-allocate user and project resources. `Funds'
are deposited to accounts, and drawn down when a resource manager
executes jobs. GOLD provides for balance and usage queries on accounts.

*SLURM Bank* is a collection of wrapper scripts written by TCHPC to give
GOLD-like capabilities for managing resources to SLURM. With the SLURM Bank
scripts we are able to provide a simple banking system where we can deposit
hours to an account. Users are associated with these accounts which they use
to run jobs. If users do not have an account or if they do not have hours
in their account then they cannot run jobs.

At TCHPC, we were motivated to replace the resource management and
allocation systems which comprised of three pieces of software (SLURM,
GOLD and MAUI) with just a single piece of software: SLURM. Having all
of the banking functionality in SLURM has benefits for both the
systems administrators:

* Having just SLURM without MAUI means there are fewer things to go
  wrong
* Overall performance for scheduling and launching jobs is much better
  with just SLURM
* GOLD is overly complicated and we don't need many of the features
  from GOLD

And also benefits for end users of clusters:

* Fewer commands/systems to learn
* Faster job submission and turn-around
* Greater overall system stability

The package is not feature complete and there are issues with the
current proposed implementation. Despite this, SLURM Bank has been in
production use at TCHPC for over a year with some success.
