[[!sidebar content="""

* [[download]]
* [[install]]
* [[bugs]]
* [[walkthrough]]
* [[design]]
* [[contact]]
* [[copyright]]

"""]]

## About

SLURM Bank, a collection of wrapper scripts to give slurm GOLD like
capabilities for managing resources.

With the scripts we are able to provide a simple *banking* system
where we can deposit hours to an account. Users are associated with
these accounts which they use to run jobs. If users do not have an
account or if they do not have hours in their account then they cannot
run jobs.

<table>
<tr>
<td width="50%" valign="top">[[!inline feeds=no template=bare pages=use_case/user]]</td>
<td width="50%" valign="top">[[!inline feeds=no template=bare pages=use_case/admin]]</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Motivation

To replace our (at [TCHPC][]) current Resource Management and Allocation Systems
which comprises three pieces of software ([slurm][], [GOLD][] and
[maui][]) with just a single piece of software: Slurm.

Having all of the banking functionality of SLURM wrapped up has
benefits for both the systems administrators:

* Having just slurm without maui means there are less things to go
  wrong
* Overall performance for scheduling and launching jobs is much better
  with just slurm
* GOLD is overly complicated and we don't need many of the features
  from GOLD

And also benefits for end users of clusters:

* Less commands/systems to learn
* Faster job submission and turn-around
* Greater overall system stability

## Experience with the migratation

Moving from GOLD, Maui and SLURM to just running SLURM required us to
gather some information.

* List of Principle Investigators who own accounts/projects
* List of projects
* List of users

We also required a set of associations

* PI -> projects -> users

The mapping we ended up having in the end in the slurmdbd was kept simple

* projects -> users

Which gave us a hierachy like this

- root
  - project1
     - user1
     - user2
  - project2
     - user1
     - user3
     - user4
  - project3
     - user3

and so on...

## Design

The [[design]] document contains ideas (todo and done). So far we have
discovered that slurm already has much of the needed functionality
required for "banking". Much of the [[sbank]] commands are just
wrapper scripts to already existing slurm commands. One of the
problems with banking is being consistent, the sbank wrapper scripts
try to provide a workflow to provide a GOLD like banking system with
slurm.

SLURM bank is extremely simple and only very basic banking
functionality is provided. That is when a user or a group of users run
out of time in an account the jobs that are running will be
immediately terminated. In SLURM bank we do not have reservation of
time to ensure jobs complete, it is up to the user to figure that out,
by doing so users will hopefully be more aware of the time that they
have used. We also do not have the notion of crediting or overdrawing
so if jobs fail due to system failures etc... users will not be
automatically refunded hours. This issue will be left up to the users
and admins to resolve.

### Needed components

This is now available with slurm-bank

* A consistent way of adding/removing projects and users to said
  projects.
* A way of adding/removing hours from a project (account).
* A way of telling users how much time they have left and how much
  time they have used.
* A way of letting users know if they can complete a job or not
  (easily).

You can do everything that these wrapper scripts are doing with plain
slurm commands! We stress that these scripts are just fixing the
workflows in managing accounts and users as well as providing some
helper tools to let users manage their own resources.

The SLURM software itself is free and open-source, under a GPLv2
Licence, so anyone could freely and easily replicate the work
undertaken here themselves.

Also, note that the software itself is fully-readable scripts (no
compiled code) and its behaviour is fully documented, it is trivial
for any user on our systems to view the documentation and scripts, and
re-implement it themselves.

## Documentation

See the [[walkthrough]] for an example of how to implement and use
slurm-bank.

### Shell scripts

* [[sbank]]
* [[sbank-balance]]
* [[sbank-cluster]]
* [[sbank-deposit]]
* [[sbank-project]]
* [[sbank-time]]

### Experimental scripts

* [[sbank-submit]]
* [[sbank-user]]
* [[sbank-refund]]

### Proposed scripts

* [[sbank-report]] -- this might be better provided with the
[[sbank-balance]] script.

## Repo history

	git shortlog --since "Mon May 16 17:12:35 2011"

[slurm]: https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/
[maui]: http://www.clusterresources.com/products/maui/
[GOLD]: http://www.clusterresources.com/pages/products/gold/
[TCHPC]: http://www.tchpc.tcd.ie/
