# NAME

sbank balance - show slurm balance

# SYNOPSIS

sbank balance *subcommand* [OPTION]...

# DESCRIPTION

Show the balance of used and available hours to the user for a given
account. This is just a wrapper to the sbalance command, and is provided
to give the user/admin a consistent interface. If no options are given,
then sbank-balance will show the balance of the user who ran the script.

* statement - shows balance sheet statement for user.

  -h

  show help message

  -c

  display per cluster 'clustername' (defaults to the local cluster)

  -a

  display balance of account 'accountname' (defaults to
  all accounts of the current user)

  -A

  display all accounts (defaults to all accounts of the
  current user)

  -U

  display only the current user's balances (defaults to all users
  in all accounts of the current user)

  -u

  display for the given user (defaults to the current user)

  -b

  display unformatted balance of account 'accountname'

  -s

  display historical user/account usage from the DBD via 'sreport',
  starting from yyyy-mm-dd

* request - request a number hours from an account and returns a number
  of hours remaining in the account.

  -h

  show help message

  -c, --cluster

  Specify the slurm cluster

  -a, --account

  Specify the slurm account

  -t, --time

  Specify the amount of hours to request. This value must be a
  positive integer value.

* checkscript - check the hours that a script is about to request.

  -c, --cluster

  Specify the slurm cluster

  -s, --scriptname
  
  Name of script to check

# EXAMPLES

Show your own balance (all your accounts), including those of other members of the accounts

	sbank balance statement

Show your own balance (all your accounts)

	sbank balance statement -U

Show the balance in the given account, including those of other members of the accounts

	sbank balance statement -a account_name

Show the unformatted balance of an account

	sbank balance statement -b account_name

Show the balance of all accounts in the given cluster

	sbank balance statement -A -c mycluster

Request 'hours' from an account to see if there are enough hours available
to run a job.

	sbank request -c mycluster -a account0001 -t 1000

# SEE ALSO

* [[sbank]](1)
* [[sbank-deposit]](1)

# AUTHOR

Jimmy Tang <jtang@tchpc.tcd.ie>
Paddy Doyle <paddy@tchpc.tcd.ie>

# COPYRIGHT

Copyright  (C) 2011 Trinity Centre for High Performance Computing, Trinity College Dublin.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
