# NAME

sbank time - time calculator

# SYNOPSIS

sbank time *subcommand* [OPTION]...

# DESCRIPTION

Collection of shell scripts for estimating amount of time for a given
set of nodes, ntasks, cores and time and converting a slurm time string
to hours.

TIME can be one of the following formats (integer values only):

	days-hours:minutes:seconds
	days-hours:minutes
	days-hours
	hours:minutes:seconds
	minutes:seconds
	minutes

* calc - convert slurm time string to hours

  -h

  show help message

  -t TIME

  Specify time to convert


* estimate - estimate the number of hours for a given number of tasks,
nodes, cores and wall time hours.

  -h

  show help message

  -N, --nodes

  Specify the number nodes, this option conflicts with ntasks, and
  requires that the number of cores per node must be specified.

  -n, --ntasks

  Specify the number of tasks, this option conflicts with nodes and does
  not require that

  -c, --cores

  Specify the number of cores per node, this option is required for
  nodes and has no effect for ntasks.

  -t, --time

  Specify the time in walltime in the units of hours, it must be an
  integer value and non-negative.

* estimatescript - estimate the number of CPU hours by parsing a sbatch
script for time and core/node values

  -h

  show help message

  -s, --scriptname

  Specify the sbatch script name. It must exist, and be readable.

  -v, --verbose

  Specify verbose output


# EXAMPLES

Convert the slurm time '4-00:00:00' to hours

	sbank time calc -t 4-00:00:00

Estimate how many hours needed for 4 nodes each with 8 cores for 24hrs
of wall time

	sbank time estimate -N 4 -c 8 -t 24

Estimate how many hours needed for 32 tasks for 4 days

	sbank time estimate -n 32 -t 96

Chaining the two commands together

	sbank time estimate -n 32 -t $(sbank time calc -t 4-00:00:00)

Check the estimated CPU hours from a script

	sbank time estimatescript -s ~/job.sh


# SEE ALSO

* [[sbank]](1)
* [[sbank-balance]](1)
* [[sbank-deposit]](1)

# AUTHOR

Paddy Doyle <paddy@tchpc.tcd.ie>
Jimmy Tang <jtang@tchpc.tcd.ie>

# COPYRIGHT

Copyright  (C) 2011 Trinity Centre for High Performance Computing, Trinity College Dublin.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
