# SLURM Bank

[[!toc levels=3]]

## Abstract

SLURM Bank (sbank) is a collection of wrapper scripts to give GOLD-like
capabilities for managing resources to SLURM. With the SLURM Bank scripts we
are able to provide a simple banking system where we can deposit hours
to an account. Users are associated with these accounts which they use
to run jobs. If users do not have an account or if they do not have
hours in their account then they cannot run jobs.

## Background

### FIXME Points are to be moved to slides

* Brief history of TCHPC and systems/resource managers
  - Funding agencies wanted accountability for CPU time; reporting of this
* Were running GOLD+Maui+Torque
* Tried GOLD+Maui+SLURM
  - interface very unreliable, complex
* Wanted to just use SLURM (simpler, less complex, more reliable)
* Refs to slurm-dev mailing list threads

----

Trinity Centre for High Performance Computing (TCHPC) is based in
Trinity College Dublin. TCHPC provides a number of storage and compute
services. The _slurm-bank_ package relates to the compute services
provided. There are a number of computing systems available to
academics in TCD, these range from small to medium sized clusters and
a rack of Bluegene/P.

In the past Torque, Maui and GOLD were deployed to provide the accounting and
banking features that were required by the funding agencies for justifying
the funding streams and usage of the funded systems. The deployed system was
in general not as reliable as we desired. This prompted the devops team to
look for more suitable alternatives. Prior to the development of slurm-bank
the solution was to deploy SLURM, Maui and GOLD. While this solution worked
it was not as reliable or as transparent as desired.

A number of emails were exchanged during FIXME: look up refs. and
internally at TCHPC the devops decided to implement some of the ideas
that were expressed by the SLURM developers.

At TCHPC, we were motivated to replace the resource management and
allocation systems which comprised of three pieces of software (SLURM,
GOLD and maui) with just a single piece of software: SLURM. Having all
of the banking functionality in SLURM has benefits for both the
systems administrators:

* Having just SLURM without maui means there are fewer things to go
  wrong
* Overall performance for scheduling and launching jobs is much better
  with just SLURM
* GOLD is overly complicated and we don't need many of the features
  from GOLD

And also benefits for end users of clusters:

* Fewer commands/systems to learn
* Faster job submission and turn-around
* Greater overall system stability

The package is not feature complete and there are issues with the
current proposed implementation. Despite this, SLURM Bank has been in
production use at TCHPC for a year with some success.

## Design

* Use existing GrpCPUMins feature in SLURM
  - allocated through SLURM Associations
* Usage of spent CPU hours/minutes obtained via sshare
  - user usage per association is available from the SlurmDBD
  - hard GrpCPUMins limits (PriorityDecayHalfLife=0, PriorityUsageResetPeriod=NONE)
  - requires PriorityType=priority/multifactor
  - but no half-life decay to reduce impact of usage over time
* Implemented in shell/perl scripts, mainly as a wrapper to sacctmgr and sshare
  - adopted similar command-line interface to git ("sbank balance" -> "sbank-balance")
  - users need only know one command
  - tried to immitate some commonly used GOLD commands
* Provides a workflow for just using SLURM
* Turn complex GOLD into an issue of having the user talk to you
  - GOLD: pre-allocated hours; auto-refund didn't always work proplerly for failed jobs (e.g. due to system failure)
  - sbank: user asks admin for a refund, this might not scale for sites with lots of users
* Flat hierarchy of Associations
  - Made this assumption to simplify implementation, we didn't really need or wanted a hierachy of projects

### Features

* Create SLURM Associations (called ``projects'')
* Add users to projects
* Add/subtract hours to/from projects
* Workflows to help users track hours
  - checking job scripts for CPU hours
  - balance statement
* Try to be self-documenting
  - users need only know one command
  - documented workflows on who it's supposed to work

### Off-line Project Database

* Off-line (wrt to SLURM) PHP/MySQL application for allocating project codes
  and recording abstract, Project Leader, requested hours, requested storage, start/end
  dates
* Missing a connection between SLURM Bank and the project end dates
  - could use a simple text DB such as recutils, but this still requires
    some kind of synchronisation workflow

## Admin

* Walkthrough

## User

* Walkthrough

## Deployed on

* SLURM 2.2.x, 2.3.x and 2.4.x
* SL5x (and system version of perl/bash)
  * Experimented with deploying on ARCHLINUX

## Limitations

* SLURM fairshare essentially fails if the period is too long
  - no reset of fairshare (hard GrpCPUMins limit with PriorityDecayHalfLife=0
    and PriorityUsageResetPeriod=NONE)
  - there is no half-life decay, so the user's small usage in the past X
    number of weeks is less important than their large usage Y months ago.
  - people's fairshare tends to zero if they've used a lot of their allocation
    `in the past' at any point. Even if they haven't run out of hours, and used
    all of those hours Y months.
    We sort-of knew that this was going to happen, but it wasn't obvious that it
    would become a big issue.
* No support for SLURM hierarchy of Associations
* Written as shell/perl, rather than integrated with SLURM source
* Disconnect between project expiry and SLURM/Sbank Associations
  - recutils
  - would need crontab or similar to query and expire Assocations
* Many small jobs: has the potential to query sacctmgr many times and create a bottleneck

## Our Experiences

* sbank balance statement written to the slurm-NNN.out file by the Epilog
  - some users notice and read this, others don't
* Policy of our site: create a new Association/project for each new user-submitted
  project
  - since priorities/fairshare are calculated on a per-association basis, (no
    per-user weighting) it means that someone who's been hammering the queue and
    runs out of hours, and then is granted a new project code, all of a sudden has
    top priority again, even though someone who's only used half of their
    allocation has a fairshare tending towards zero.
* Effects of lack half-life decay and no usage reset
  - the heavy users won't notice their priorities tending to zero (run out of hours
    and apply for a new project)
  - light/casual users don't run out of hours, and don't notice their low priorities;
    they might have a project for over a year (lack of automated project expiry)
  - favours new users, and heavy users who are canny enough to keep applying for
    new hours when they run out
* Had issues with QoS and multiplier (global vs per-user)
  - Wanted to implement a higher charge-rate for reservations; needs further exploration

## Future Work

* Re-implement in C, and integrate with upstream source
* We're considering stopping with the whole 'fixed hours' concept of sbank, and
  going to a per-quarter reporting with cut-off system.

  - So we use SLURM's fairshare system as intended!
  - Everyone's usage gets reset every 3 months (and so it levels off new and
    existing users).
  - Half-life decay works again, so my usage in the last week is more important
    than last month
  - Use sreport quarterly to get usage stats.
  - Compare that to the off-line PHP/MySQL Project database, and if someone has
    gone over their allocation, that project code is turned off. So someone can
    gain some extra, ``unauthorised'' hours, but not for long.
* Upgrade to current SLURM
  - Done (2.4.x) without issue.
* Hooks for reporting disk quotas or other resources that were used
